# ESL vs. EFL

* ESL (English as a Second Language): learning English where it is
  commonly spoken.
* EFL (English as a Foreign Language): learning English where it is
  *not* commonly spoken.

# List of Learning Activities

* Meaning-focused input
* Meaning-focused output
* Language-focused learning
* Fluency development
* General purpose

---
* Speaking
* Listening
* Reading
* Writing

# References

* Nation, I.S.P. (2009) Teaching ESL/RFL Listening and Speaking.
* New York: Routledge, Nation, I.S.P. (2009) Teaching ESL/RFL Reading
  and Writing.
* New York: Routledge, and Nation, P. (2013) What should Every EFL
  Teacher Know? Seoul: Compass Publishing.

# 4 Principles

* Principle 1: Work out what your needs are and learn what is most
  useful for you
* Principle 2: Balance your learning across the four strands
* Principle 3: Apply conditions that help learning using good language
  learning techniques
* Principle 4: Keep motivated and work hard–Do what needs to be done

# 4 Strands of Learning Activities

* learning from meaning-focused input (listening and reading)
* learning from meaning-focused output (speaking and writing)
* language-focused learning (studying pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar
  etc)
* fluency development (getting good at using what you already know)

# How to Learn

* Know why you are learning it -- what are your goals?
* Balance -- do all 4 strands of learning activities.
* Begin with "survival vocabularies".
* Get a movie you like and study its script.
* Get a children's book.
* Do lots of easy reading every week.
* Arrange a regular speaking time with a native speaker; do roles plays
  of common situations.
* Learn useful phrases and sentences as whole units.
* Avoid learning near synonyms, opposites or members of a lexical set
  together (groups like the months of the year, the names of fruit,
  colors, parts of the body, articles of clothing).
* Regularly study and practice pronunciation, preferably with a teacher
  who understand about the sounds of the language.

# Conditions for Learning

* Spaced repetition
* Quality of attention given to items; quality is increased by recalling
  what you have met, making varied recalls, analyzing and elaborating on
  language items, and giving deliberate attention.
* It will take time and efforts -- set regular weekly goals for words to
  learn, pages to read, and minutes to spend doing listening.
  * Keep a record of what you do so you can see your progress.
