"What do you need to do to learn a foreign language?"

# 4 Principles

* Principle 1: Work out what your needs are and learn what is most
  useful for you
* Principle 2: Balance your learning
* Principle 3: Apply conditions that help learning
* Principle 4: Keep motivated and work hard–Do what needs to be done

# Take Advantage of Researched Learning Strategies

## Right Amounts of Input (Reading & Listening) at the Right Level

* Researched with very young foreign language learners.
* Same amount of class time, those with "more interesting and
  understandable written input" outperforms those with much less input.
* The gains were maintained a year later.

## Deliberate Learning

1. Deliberate Learning through using bilingual word cards
2. A variety of vocabulary related exercises

With the latter, you are likely to be learning vocabulary at less than
half the rate that you could easily achieve.

## Fluency Development

1. Course without fluency development activities such as timed reading
2. Course with fluency development activities such as timed reading

With the latter, your reading speed will increase by 50% and in some
cases 100%.

# Principle 1: Work out what your needs are and learn what is most useful for you

Identify your goal so you can better choose what and how to learn.  For
example, some people want to be able to speak English while some others
want to read it.

## Vocabulary Size Figures

* 6000 words to be familiar with 98% of the running words in a friendly
  informal conversation or in a movie.
* 8000-9000 words to be familiar with 98% of the running words in a
  novel or newspaper.
* Native speakers learn at the rate of around 1000 words a year until
  they reach close to 20000 words.
* With a vocabulary of 1000-2000 the most useful words, you can
  communicate and get most things done.

# Principle 2: Balance your learning

Probably the most important principle.

Spend equal amounts of time on:

1. learning from meaning-focused input (listening and reading)
2. learning from meaning-focused output (speaking and writing)
3. language-focused learning (studying pronunciation, vocabulary, grammar etc)
4. fluency development (getting good at using what you already know).

Adjust According to your goals.

# Principle 3: Apply conditions that help learning

* Involve both deliberate and incidental learning
  * Repetition
  * Retrieval (recall)
  * Varied meetings
  * Varied use
  * Visuals
  * Deliberate attention
* Avoid interference.

## There Is No One Method to Rule Them All

* No research has proven one method is superior than all the other.
* Follow the principles.
* Balance among the 4 strands of methods.
* Adjust accordingly -- learning what is the most useful and at the
  right level for you.

# Principle 4: Keep motivated and work hard–Do what needs to be done

Stay motivated.

Set short-term goals; identify and track signs of progress and
achievement.

Quantity and quality.
