"Balance your learning–learn through listening and reading."

# Learn a Language through Listening

* Watch a movie with subtitles to get a feel for the language.
  * Download the script of the movie and study it before watching it.
  * Look up words you do not know.
  * Work out what the sentences mean.
  * Watch the movie with subtitles.
  * Watch it again a few days/weeks later.
* Reading while listening.

## How Much Vocabulary Do You Need to Know to Watch a Movie?

* Movies are usually under 10000 running words long.
* A novel is usually over 100000 words long.
* Movies typically contain around 1000 different word families.
* You need at least 3000 words; preferably 6000 words.

Meaningful input: regularly get lots of listening and reading input at
the right level of difficulty for you.

# Learn a Language through Reading

1. Read texts which are at the right level for you.
   * Interesting, enjoyable, understandable
2. Accompany reading with deliberate learning from word cards or flash
   card programs.
3. Make sure you do plenty of reading. The higher your level of
   proficiency, the more you will need to read in order to meet words at
   the right level for you enough times to have a chance to learn them.

## What is the Right Level?

A text is at the right level for you if you are familiar with 98% of the
words it contains.
* No more than 2 unfamiliar words in every 100 running words.
* About 1 unknown word or less in every five lines.

## Extensive Reading

To get a feel for vocabulary, word groups, and grammatical features.

* At least 1 or 2 hours per week.
* 2/3 of this time should be spent reading material contains a few
  unknown words.
* 1/3 of this time should be spent readying easy material to develop
  reading fluency.
* It is not necessary to sit comprehension tests on the reading.

## Narrow Reading

Staying within a single topic or subject area, preferably one that you
already know a lot about, or a story you are following closely.

* Reduce the total number of different words that you meet.
* Build up useful content knowledge, which makes guessing unknown words
  from context easier.

However, if you already know many words (over 6000 or 7000 words), it
may be more useful for you to read widely so you can meet more unknown
words that you can learn.

## Benefits of Re-reading the Same Book

* Guaranteed repetition of the vocabulary
  * Opportunity for recall
* Develop reading fluency

## Benefits of Reading a Different Book

* Opportunity to meet known words in a varied context
* Meeting new words
