"Balance your learning–learn through speaking and writing."

* Listening and reading -- receptive skills
* Speaking and writing -- productive skills

Producing language is more difficult than receiving it because choices
have to be made.

# Children vs. Adults

* Children learn better in an ESL environment.
* Adults learn better in an EFL environment.

# Learn a Language through Speaking

Look for opportunities to speak the language -- speaking is the hardest
skill to develop when you are self-educating.

A native speaker is unlikely to correct a foreign language learner if
what the learner says is understandable even if not correct.

Find someone who is both willing and capable of giving you corrective
feedback.  Decide on a particular focus; for example, pronunciation, or
grammar, so the corrections are not overwhelming.

## Role Play

1. Gather a group of 2 or 3 people.
2. Act out the parts of conversations in a common situation.
3. Think about what could be improved.
4. Repeat.
5. Take turns.
6. Do it again in a few weeks.

## Prepared Talks

Develop short talks that you can write out, memorize, get checked, and
then practice.

* Numbers
* Greetings
* Expressions of politeness -- requests, apology, gratitude
* Shopping
* Dining in a restaurant
* Buying takeaway food
* Ask for directions
* Give directions
* Ask about public transport
* Using public transport
* Using Post office
* Using Bank
* Using telephone
* Hobbies
* Movies
* Books
* TV programs
* Travel
* Family
* Work
* Home town
* Home country

# Learn a Language through Writing

3 kinds of writing:
* Accuracy
* Fluency
* Quantity

Choose a topic that is relevant for you:
* Things that interest you.
* Things that you care about.
* Things that you are familiar with.

Mix up learning activities:
* Reading and writing
* Listening and writing
* Watching, listening, and writing
