"Balance your learning–do deliberate study of language features."

Deliberate learning is only one of the 4 strands of learning activities.
It should take about 1/4 of the total learning time and effort.

Deliberate learning can be applied to all aspect of language learning:
vocabulary, grammar, pronunciation; speaking, listening, reading, and
writing.

# Vocabulary

Learning vocabulary in context indeed helps, and decontextualized
learning with words cards *also* helps.

Research has shown that in the beginning and intermediate stages of
language learning, the first and foreign languages are unavoidably
stored together.

# Word Cards

* Start with small packs of cards -- about 15 to 20 words.
* Space the repetitions.
* Use keywords and language/situational contexts to work with difficult
  words.
* Keep words of similar spelling or related meaning separated.
* Randomize the order of cards.
* Say the words aloud.
* Add phrases or sentences containing the words on the cards, especially
  verbs.
* Work out how the meanings of the parts of a multi-word phrase relate
  the meaning of the whole.

## The Keyword Technique

1. Think of a word in your first language that sounds like the foreign
   language word -- this is the *keyword*.
2. Think of an image involving the meaning of the foreign language word
   and the meaning of the keyword.
3. Visualize the image to reinforce learning.

# Transcription

1. Get a recording of a short spoken text (around 100 words).
2. Make a written version of it.

If possible, choose a spoken text where you can get a written version to
check and correct what you transcribed.

It is OK to pause the playback, replay, and focus on parts of the text.

# Intensive Reading

Work through a text carefully.

Understand every word, phrase, and sentence; grammar and meaning.

# Delayed Copying

1. Choose a text around 200 words.
2. Read a few words or a full sentence.
3. Write it down without looking back at the text.

# Learn Related Words Together or Not?

It depends.

No for synonyms, opposites, and members of a lexical set.

Yes for words related in a story.

# Pronunciation

1. Find out which sounds are difficult for you and practice them
   individually.
2. Move onto simple words.
3. Phrases.
4. Sentences.

Find a well-informed teacher.

Start with pronunciation early because later remedial work on
pronunciation requires much more effort.

# Grammar

It is OK to learn to the names of parts of speech, grammatical
constructions, but most of the learning of grammar needs to involve
using the language.
