"Balance your learning–get fluent at using what you know."

# Fluency

Here by fluency it does not mean to be able to produce the perfect
answer.  We define fluency as you can quickly make the best use of what
you have learned.

* Use familiar materials that contain no unknown vocabulary or unknown
  grammatical features.
* Strive for faster speed.
* Practice a lot; focus on quantity.
* Focus on the actual use of the language (communication).

# Listening

1. Find a recording of a text of 200-300 words.
2. Study the written text.
3. Listen to it; with reduced speed if necessary.

# Speaking

## 4/3/2

1. Speak on a familiar topic for 4 minutes.
2. Speak on the same topic for 3 minutes.
3. Speak on the same topic for 2 minutes.

You can practice with or without an audience.

You can also do 3/2/1.5.

# Reading

The goal is to:
* Reach 150 words per minute if reading aloud.
* Reach 250 words per minute if reading silently.

## Repeated Reading

Read the same material at least 3 times with increased speed.

Reading fluency must involve comprehension.

## Speed Reading

This learning activity requires some preparation.  You need reading
materials that are:

1. Written within a controlled vocabulary, and
2. Accompanied by a set of multiple-choice comprehension questions.

The goal is to reach 250 words per minute with comprehension scores of 7
or 8 out of 10.

# Writing

## 10-Minute Writing

* Write as much as you can in 10 minutes.
* Do not worry about accuracy -- just keep writing.
* Review where you were blocked.

## Repeated Writing

1. Write.
2. Get your writing checked and corrected.
3. Review the checked and corrected writing carefully.
4. Put it away and then write it again from memory.
5. Repeat until you can do it fluently.
