"Keep motivated and work hard."

# Learn How to Learn

Learning another language is a long-term project -- thousands of hours.

## Figure out Why You are Learning Another Language

* What are your needs?
  * Elementary proficiency: able to satisfy routine travel needs and
    minimum courtesy requirements.
  * Limited working proficiency: able to satisfy routine social demands
    and limited work requirements.
  * Minimum professional proficiency: sufficient structural accuracy and
    vocabulary to participate effectively in most formal and informal
    conversations on practical, social, and professional topics.
  * Full professional proficiency: fluency and accuracy on all levels
    normally relevant to professional needs.
  * Native or bilingual proficiency: equivalent to an educated native
    speaker.
* What is the most useful, relevant for you?

## Balance Your Learning Activities across the 4 Strands

* Meaning-focused input
* Meaning-focused output
* Language-focused learning
* Fluency development

## Apply Conditions that Help Learning

* Spaced repetition
* Recall and retrieval
* Varied meetings and use
* Elaboration and deliberate attention

## Stay Motivated

* Set up daily and weekly goals
  * 20 words a week, 50 weeks a year; you can match the learning rate of
    native English speakers.
* Pick interesting materials of the right difficulties.
* Monitor your progress.

## Avoid Interference (Items Closely Related in Meaning)

* Near synonyms
* opposites
* Members of a lexical set.

## Use it for communicative purposes.
